Types of trafficking:
 Human
 Labour
 Sex
 Familial: trafficking in our own family

 Assumptions: She chose to Just focus on sex and labour because they are the most common
 Falsified above assumptions: She found Familial traficcing is most common form.

Main Patnership: x, a Dallas-based organization dedicated to helping victims of domestic abuse and human trafficking

Gentleman that she worked with tells a story about a young woman who was trafficked to US. She didnt see herself as victim. She had worked for 7-8 years. Mosaic told her that she is supposed to get wages as a rightful citizen of US. She was made understand that she was trafficked. After explanation, she
did understand that was a victim.

Lisa's first app would have failed if she had launched it since she realised that the victims of human trafficking will not have downloaded such app, since they don't even realise that they are the victims. 
That's when she started to research from National Human Trafficking Hotline - receive 33k per year. Also, cite locations where traf. happens a lot.
Only 300 out of 33k were truck trafficking
Asking better questions: How could I modify technology to let truck drivers report human trafi..
She didn't know truck drivers, their schedule and other stuffs.
She didn't even know what she wanted to know.

She started formulating on how to solve: understand truck driver behaviours overall, and also day to day
First stop: Truck Driver Training School

Went to the school and talked ot the director about her work. She said "she would like to know "
She wanted to understand what current technology were truck drivers used.
She went to driving range and talk to students. She asked if she could take pictures. This was mistake 1.

She said that she should have let the director know that she was there to examine the technology truck drivers used, and not to find if human trafficking was happening at the school.

Experience between two drivers were 25 years.

She went inside the truck and saw the stuff truck drivers used. 

Then director came and asked her to leave because he was upset. He found out that she was focused on human trafficking. She explained that he was mistaken and she was there to examine truck drivers technology so she could design product well for 

Talked about 1 hrs. Truck Stops go to, people she should approach or not. Times and daya she should go. She should go with a man. The vernacular they use. It prompted her to next step: Observation

She went to truck stops, and started examining it.
This is all the amenities available. This stop has 225 truck drivers park per night here. Truck wash, chapel, resturants, trailers.
This motel: 20$ a night. Thee are 2 doors for motel rooms. Those were often used for sex workers and prostitutes. 
Every date night at Iron Skillet, take a guy with you, had pie with truck drivers.
There were section specificially for truck drivers. Since they became regular, they could sit there.
Since turck would sit alone for so long in their journey, so they loved tot alk
they talked about their stuff.
One stuff she learnt was that their limitation: Education.
All this time she was looking from design solution perspective, but she noticed that education was more important perspective.

She would also have 1on1 convo with truck drivers.
She also learnt all the tech they used.

She also learnt names of the sex workers at truck stops. She also learnt that there were stamps
While talking to so many people she learnt their vernacular, so she didn't have to always ask the context everytime. She would just get it.

She also received pictures of the inside of inside of the trucks: 
citizen spin radio: 10:00
, computer, GPS, 
onborading computers: Home office can see when truck driver are driving, idle, sleeping and other stuff. Drivers would just turn it off, and would manually log everything.

Truck drivers spend most of their time in navigating. 

Another truck driver: excited to use, he loves to use mobile apps. he sent the screenshot of the apps he sent. Apps which would credit them if they would refill gas using the app. Using this credit, they could use it for taking shower, food and motels.

She also found about concern about their safety. Truck drivers would often try to help the victims, and would call police for help. But police comes and victims turn on the driver and driver gets into trouble. So to avoid this they would not at all report.

So truck drivers didn't know how to help now.

She talked to a driver over call for 2hrs. In hour and half, she said she wanna wrap up. He mentioned that he has one more story. It was important. He didn't know
If truck drivers don't get their cargo from point a to point b, then don't get full amount. Lot of drivers are not allowed to south dallas because there human trafficking is quite prominent.

She didn't go that area unless Dallas PD and Mosaic were in loop.


The factors she found after observation: Anonymity, safety, Languages

First design: three different options: middle one was photo. She was asked to remove by lawyers due to pornography laws.

The report would go to Mosaic after reporting.

All the app needs to do is: make a report, that's it. 
She wanted to add educational stuff, but it moves far from simplicity that is reporting.

It allows to add details: personal info of driver optional

She focused on Education: people needs to be educated about human trafficking: restaurants (they have multiple visitors), plumbers and alarm installers.
People who go to places which are not normally accessible and places where people who conduct trafficking might visit like restaurants.






